README.md, before:

# Sodium [![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

Swift-Sodium
=============

Swift-Sodium provides a safe and easy to use interface to perform
common cryptographic operations on iOS and OSX.

It leverages the [Sodium](https://download.libsodium.org/doc/) library,
and although Swift is the primary target, the framework can also be used in
Objective C.

Swift-Sodium requires Swift 2.0 (introduced in Xcode 7).

Usage
=====

Add `Sodium.framework` as a dependency to your project, and import the module:
```swift
import Sodium
```

The Sodium library itself doesn't have to be installed on the system: the
repository already includes a precompiled library for armv7, armv7s,
arm64, as well as for the iOS simulator.

The `libsodium-ios.a` file has been generated by the
[dist-build/ios.sh](https://github.com/jedisct1/libsodium/blob/master/dist-build/ios.sh)
script.
The `libsodium-osx.a` file has been generated by the
[dist-build/osx.sh](https://github.com/jedisct1/libsodium/blob/master/dist-build/osx.sh)
script.

Running these scripts on Xcode 7.0 (`7A220`) on the revision
`437b20161ca0271756e5c2b6078a94dd63b51493` of libsodium generate files
identical to the ones present in this repository.

Public-key authenticated encryption
===================================

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let aliceKeyPair = sodium.box.keyPair()!
let bobKeyPair = sodium.box.keyPair()!
let message: NSData = "My Test Message".toData()!

let encryptedMessageFromAliceToBob: NSData =
  sodium.box.seal(message,
                  recipientPublicKey: bobKeyPair.publicKey,
                  senderSecretKey: aliceKeyPair.secretKey)!

let messageVerifiedAndDecryptedByBob =
  sodium.box.open(encryptedMessageFromAliceToBob,
                  senderPublicKey: bobKeyPair.publicKey,
                  recipientSecretKey: aliceKeyPair.secretKey)
```

`seal()` automatically generates a nonce and prepends it to the
ciphertext. `open()` extracts the nonce and decrypts the ciphertext.

The `Box` class also provides alternative functions and parameters to
deterministically generate key pairs, to retrieve the nonce and/or the
authenticator, and to detach them from the original message.

Public-key signatures
=====================

Detached signatures
-------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let keyPair = sodium.sign.keyPair()!
let signature = sodium.sign.signature(message, secretKey: keyPair.secretKey)!
if sodium.sign.verify(message,
                      publicKey: keyPair.publicKey,
                      signature: signature) {
  // signature is valid
}
```

Attached signatures
-------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let keyPair = sodium.sign.keyPair()!
let signedMessage = sodium.sign.sign(message, secretKey: keyPair.secretKey)!
if let unsignedMessage = sodium.sign.open(signedMessage, publicKey: keyPair.publicKey) {
  // signature is valid
}
```

Secret-key authenticated encryption
===================================

```swift
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let secretKey = sodium.secretBox.key()!
let encrypted: NSData = sodium.secretBox.seal(message, secretKey: secretKey)!
if let decrypted = sodium.secretBox.open(encrypted, secretKey: secretKey) {
  // authenticator is valid, decrypted contains the original message
}
```

Hashing
=======

Deterministic hashing
---------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let h = sodium.genericHash.hash(message)
```

Keyed hashing
-------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let key = "Secret key".toData()!
let h = sodium.genericHash.hash(message, key: key)
```

Streaming
---------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let (message1, message2) = ("My Test ".toData()!, "Message".toData()!)
let key = "Secret key".toData()!
let stream = sodium.genericHash.initStream(key)!
stream.update(message1)
stream.update(message2)
let h = stream.final()
```

Short-output hashing (SipHash)
==============================

```swift
let sodium = Sodium!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let key = sodium.randomBytes.buf(ShortHash.KeyBytes)!
let h = sodium.shortHash.hash(message, key: key)
```

Random numbers generation
=========================

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let randomData = sodium.randomBytes.buf(1000)
```

Password hashing
================
```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let password = "Correct Horse Battery Staple".toData()!
let hashedStr = sodium.pwHash.scrypt.str(password,
  opsLimit: sodium.pwHash.scrypt.OpsLimitInteractive,
  memLimit: sodium.pwHash.scrypt.MemLimitInteractive)!

if sodium.pwHash.scrypt.strVerify(hashStr, passwd: password) == false {
  // Password doesn't match the given hash string
}
```

Utilities
=========

Zeroing memory
--------------

```swift
var dataToZero: NSMutableData
sodium.utils.zero(dataToZero)
```

Constant-time comparison
------------------------

```swift
let secret1: NSData
let secret2: NSData
let equality = sodium.utils.equals(secret1, secret2)
```

Constant-time hexadecimal encoding
----------------------------------

```swift
let data: NSData
let hex = sodium.utils.bin2hex(data)
```

Hexadecimal decoding
--------------------

```swift
let data1 = sodium.utils.hex2bin("deadbeef")
let data2 = sodium.utils.hex2bin("de:ad be:ef", ignore: " :")
```

Commit message:

Updated README with example of anonymous sealed box Updated test suite to verify anonymous sealed box crypto

README.md, after:

# Sodium [![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

Swift-Sodium
=============

Swift-Sodium provides a safe and easy to use interface to perform
common cryptographic operations on iOS and OSX.

It leverages the [Sodium](https://download.libsodium.org/doc/) library,
and although Swift is the primary target, the framework can also be used in
Objective C.

Swift-Sodium requires Swift 2.0 (introduced in Xcode 7).

Usage
=====

Add `Sodium.framework` as a dependency to your project, and import the module:
```swift
import Sodium
```

The Sodium library itself doesn't have to be installed on the system: the
repository already includes a precompiled library for armv7, armv7s,
arm64, as well as for the iOS simulator.

The `libsodium-ios.a` file has been generated by the
[dist-build/ios.sh](https://github.com/jedisct1/libsodium/blob/master/dist-build/ios.sh)
script.
The `libsodium-osx.a` file has been generated by the
[dist-build/osx.sh](https://github.com/jedisct1/libsodium/blob/master/dist-build/osx.sh)
script.

Running these scripts on Xcode 7.0 (`7A220`) on the revision
`437b20161ca0271756e5c2b6078a94dd63b51493` of libsodium generate files
identical to the ones present in this repository.

Public-key Cryptography
=======================

Authenticated Encryption
------------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let aliceKeyPair = sodium.box.keyPair()!
let bobKeyPair = sodium.box.keyPair()!
let message: NSData = "My Test Message".toData()!

let encryptedMessageFromAliceToBob: NSData =
  sodium.box.seal(message,
                  recipientPublicKey: bobKeyPair.publicKey,
                  senderSecretKey: aliceKeyPair.secretKey)!

let messageVerifiedAndDecryptedByBob =
  sodium.box.open(encryptedMessageFromAliceToBob,
                  senderPublicKey: bobKeyPair.publicKey,
                  recipientSecretKey: aliceKeyPair.secretKey)
```

`seal()` automatically generates a nonce and prepends it to the
ciphertext. `open()` extracts the nonce and decrypts the ciphertext.

The `Box` class also provides alternative functions and parameters to
deterministically generate key pairs, to retrieve the nonce and/or the
authenticator, and to detach them from the original message.

Anonymous Encryption (Sealed Boxes)
-----------------------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let bobKeyPair = sodium.box.keyPair()!
let message: NSData = "My Test Message".toData()!

let encryptedMessageToBob: NSData =
  sodium.box.seal(message, recipientPublicKey: bobKeyPair.publicKey)!

let messageDecryptedByBob =
  sodium.box.open(encryptedMessageToBob,
                  recipientPublicKey: bobKeyPair.publicKey,
                  recipientSecretKey: bobKeyPair.secretKey)
```

`seal()` generates an ephemeral keypair, uses the ephemeral secret 
key in the encryption process, combines the ephemeral public key with
the ciphertext, then destroys the keypair. The sender can not decrypt
the resulting ciphertext. `open()` extracts the public key and decrypts
using the recipient's secret key. Message integrity is verified, but 
the sender's identity cannot be correlated to the ciphertext.

Public-key signatures
=====================

Detached signatures
-------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let keyPair = sodium.sign.keyPair()!
let signature = sodium.sign.signature(message, secretKey: keyPair.secretKey)!
if sodium.sign.verify(message,
                      publicKey: keyPair.publicKey,
                      signature: signature) {
  // signature is valid
}
```

Attached signatures
-------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let keyPair = sodium.sign.keyPair()!
let signedMessage = sodium.sign.sign(message, secretKey: keyPair.secretKey)!
if let unsignedMessage = sodium.sign.open(signedMessage, publicKey: keyPair.publicKey) {
  // signature is valid
}
```

Secret-key authenticated encryption
===================================

```swift
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let secretKey = sodium.secretBox.key()!
let encrypted: NSData = sodium.secretBox.seal(message, secretKey: secretKey)!
if let decrypted = sodium.secretBox.open(encrypted, secretKey: secretKey) {
  // authenticator is valid, decrypted contains the original message
}
```

Hashing
=======

Deterministic hashing
---------------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let h = sodium.genericHash.hash(message)
```

Keyed hashing
-------------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let key = "Secret key".toData()!
let h = sodium.genericHash.hash(message, key: key)
```

Streaming
---------

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let (message1, message2) = ("My Test ".toData()!, "Message".toData()!)
let key = "Secret key".toData()!
let stream = sodium.genericHash.initStream(key)!
stream.update(message1)
stream.update(message2)
let h = stream.final()
```

Short-output hashing (SipHash)
==============================

```swift
let sodium = Sodium!
let message = "My Test Message".toData()!
let key = sodium.randomBytes.buf(ShortHash.KeyBytes)!
let h = sodium.shortHash.hash(message, key: key)
```

Random numbers generation
=========================

```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let randomData = sodium.randomBytes.buf(1000)
```

Password hashing
================
```swift
let sodium = Sodium()!
let password = "Correct Horse Battery Staple".toData()!
let hashedStr = sodium.pwHash.scrypt.str(password,
  opsLimit: sodium.pwHash.scrypt.OpsLimitInteractive,
  memLimit: sodium.pwHash.scrypt.MemLimitInteractive)!

if sodium.pwHash.scrypt.strVerify(hashStr, passwd: password) == false {
  // Password doesn't match the given hash string
}
```

Utilities
=========

Zeroing memory
--------------

```swift
var dataToZero: NSMutableData
sodium.utils.zero(dataToZero)
```

Constant-time comparison
------------------------

```swift
let secret1: NSData
let secret2: NSData
let equality = sodium.utils.equals(secret1, secret2)
```

Constant-time hexadecimal encoding
----------------------------------

```swift
let data: NSData
let hex = sodium.utils.bin2hex(data)
```

Hexadecimal decoding
--------------------

```swift
let data1 = sodium.utils.hex2bin("deadbeef")
let data2 = sodium.utils.hex2bin("de:ad be:ef", ignore: " :")
```
